A full copy of these terms will be sent to the email address provided.

Overview:
Drs. Boucheron and Stochaj are studying the effects of peer mentoring/tutoring on academic achievement through a Minorities in Science and Engineering Improvement Project, titled “Extending Academic Analytics: Application to Engineering Education at New Mexico State University,” funded by the US Department of Education Grant P120A170064. This grant is providing the resources to offer these peer mentoring services.

Benefits:
We request your permission to collect, store, and use data regarding your attendance at these sessions to help us verify and improve the efficacy of our peer mentoring services. Through our data analysis efforts, these data will be mapped to your performance in your courses and will assist us in determining the best way to help you and other EE students succeed in their degree.

Risks:
There is a small risk of inadvertent disclosure of the data (e.g., if the computer system was hacked).  All collected data will be coded to obscure any direct identifiers (Banner ID) such that any inadvertent disclosure of the data will only result in disclosure of those obscured identifiers.  

Privacy and Confidentiality:
Data that we will collect are only those data related to your attendance at peer mentoring: coded Banner ID, date and time of attendance to the mentoring/tutoring session, length of time spent at the session, course(s) for which you are attending the session, reason for attending the session (e.g., homework assignment, test review). Results will be reported only in aggregate.

The only persons who will have access to these data are Drs. Boucheron, Stochaj, and the graduate student researchers responsible for the data analysis. Your peer mentor(s) will not have access to this information. In the event that your course instructor(s) is(are) providing credit for attendance, we will collect and provide attendance information to your course instructor(s).

Participation:
If you would not like this information collected, stored, or used in this manner, please select 'No, I do not give consent' below. If you would like this information collected and stored only for the purposes of providing this information to your course instructor(s), please select 'I give consent for data collection only for the purposes of providing my course instructor(s) with attendance information.' Your decision does not affect your eligibility for, nor access to, peer mentoring/tutoring and supplemental instruction sessions. You may withdraw your consent at any time.

If you do not give consent, no individually identifiable information will be stored. We will anonymize and aggregate the basic attendance information (date, time, course, reason) in a general pool of attendance, but this information will have no mapping to you.

Contact Information:
If you ever have any questions or concerns regarding this research project, or wish to change or withdraw your consent, please contact PI Dr. Laura Boucheron (lboucher@nmsu.edu, 575-646-7420) or Co-PI Dr. Steven Stochaj (sstochaj@nmsu.edu, 575-646-4838). In the event that you withdraw consent, your data will be permanently deleted from the stored dataset. If you have any questions or concerns about your research rights, you can contact the Office of Research Compliance at 575-646-7177.

Last Updated: 2018-09-17
